I'm gonna blast through so I work as an
artist I do different projects with
projection technology tracking here I'm
working with dr. Munnabhai projecting on
the face this is a project I
collaborated with a group of four other
artists and a sixth member or six artist
named tempt and we work together to
build a low-cost open-source are
tracking system for them there's some
video of that in the fat lab show this
is an instrument if I work my way
through the SF PC slides I'll talk about
this this is a musical instrument that
plays live radio from around the world
so when you press a note on the keyboard
it finds a note being played in radio
stream from somewhere else in the world
doing all kinds of things is
collaboration with gold 11 making
interactive tables projections this is
an early project this is a project
called message of OJ where we combine an
overhead projector and a digital
projector creating a kind of hybrid
light source so mixing both analog and
digital light
so I work as an artist also work as an
educator and recently have been involved
in co-founding the school for poetic
computation and before i was at SF pc i
was at a school called Parsons Parsons
School of Design I'd been there for ten
years you can see what my ID card looked
like but I was seeing all of these
things being in the university system i
was seeing all these things that I was
uncomfortable with so you were seeing
like universities creating campuses in
Dubai you know creating these huge
buildings like you know this is what was
happening and kind of higher education
in the world that I was involved with
and you started to see it also in New
York there were things like Cooper Union
which for a hundred years had been a
free school and because of mismanagement
by the board they had to charge tuition
now so we started to think you know it's
with a group of friends started to think
about you know what are alternatives but
but besides the expensive famous schools
what are kind of alternative models for
education and could we make our own
thing and I was really inspired by my
father he's right there with the cap on
and he created it in he was an English
teacher and he created this program
called senior seminar where he took
seniors to farms and on road trips and
like blindfolded them drop them in
random places in Chicago that have to
collect oral histories and work their
way back home and like you did all of
these things he created a school and it
was really kind of beautiful like I grew
up around this idea that you could make
your own school and you know they let
students play with saws and crazy things
my mom was a childbirth educator she
taught women ought to give birth and so
I was just also surrounded by babies and
so I'd this idea that like we could
create a school we could make a school
and we so we came up with this idea it
was myself and jen lowe and mep taru and
tan choi and we called the school the
school
poetic computation and we're based in
New York we like this idea of poetry
like celebrating poetry and so if you go
to a bookstore this is st. marks
bookstore you have to go all the way to
the back of the bookstore and that's
where the poetry section is rights not
in the front of the bookstore it's in
the back of the book store because
nobody's getting rich writing poems
there their experiments they're you know
they're it's it's this kind of like
small corner of the bookstore we wanted
to create artwork and create a school
that celebrated that that place the sort
of spirit of poetry this is a really
good kind of advertisement for why we
chose the word poetry this is the artist
Jean tingly nicosia Leah Komisarek
Raphael sitting vegetable seller had the
many figure famous Italian so he says
the starting with Rafael per-
the word art was invented in the middle
of the Renaissance before then the idea
of art didn't exist the Egyptians the
Indians the Chinese none of them had the
concept of art it was just people doing
things i love that is his shirts has
more wheels this concept was invented
350 years ago and it's been used as a
scam the word I like to use is poetry
your makiki buscas is a remarkable word
which rigidly meant to live so we love
this idea of poetry celebrating poetry
like we have in our world there's this
term creative coder and we were thinking
you know what what's an alternative word
alternative word is a poet I instead of
calling yourself a coder could you call
yourself a poet Golan sent me this video
going on eleven some in this video how
the word demo is so easily rearrange to
write the word poem so we have this demo
demo or demo or die culture right around
technology and could we create a poem
poem culture we were inspired and I
mentioned these people I just wanted to
show their photographs red burns we were
inspired by red burns who created the
ITP program here she is like with a beta
camera going out and doing her
documentary filmmaking she's just
amazing kind of sorts generally a source
of inspiration for us and when she
passed away they made
fortune cookies and the fortune cookie
that I got is a quote from her and it
says that the poetry jobs you not
hardware Carol Becker who I also
mentioned is the Dean of the art school
of Columbia and again she is a fierce
advocate for artists and she suggests
this idea of having artists at a table
when important decisions are being made
and the school as i mentioned we're
really interested in asking questions
one of the things that we do in the
application when people apply we say
what do you want the school to be and
the school really is a reflection of
that it's a reflection of their answers
on the first day we actually sit in
bright questions like at individually
and then as a group and collectively and
we wind up with this crazy list this
crazy we we come up almost with a
taxonomy and every semester it's
different but it's this list of like
philosophical questions and technical
questions and meta questions and and
some people are crazy they just want to
cross off every question they want to
get an answer and some of these
questions don't have answers and you
know that's that's kind of what the
school is about so much of the school is
really driven by the people in the
school so a lot of it is like although
we plan classes a lot of things happen
spontaneously and we use whiteboards and
and so on it's a school focused on on
computation and on numbers and so you
know Oscar Schwartz one of the
participants that you know instead of
reading Kerouac young poet should be
reading Claude Shannon's mathematical
theory of communication we're looking at
code at the language of code the
language of numbers sometimes you know
number little bit crazy numbers but
numbers have meaning there's politics
there's there's there's something there
we want to figure out what what what is
there and make art work with it also
software like what's software about how
can we work with software and things
like create creative writing Kenneth
Cole the public and Goldsmith has this
idea of uncreated writing however he
teaches a class where you're not allowed
to write new words but just take words
that exist and rearrange them and that
that that this idea of taking language
and coming up with a new ways of
manipulating it that's what inspires the
school there's artworks that we also
study in the school that inspire us this
is an amazing project led Lorraine who's
an artist created this book called vast
and this is a book where
um it's it's created with text it's
computationally generated text but
there's no words but it's a book that
that tells the story and it's actually
really beautiful like we look at this
this kind of like as a as a model of
what computational poetry is about it's
a kind of understanding manipulation and
play of language and code and we're
trying to do things we invite different
artists that come in people like Brian
house to talk about data visualization
we do a lot of work using hands so you
know most people when you think about
computer programming you think like
laptop screen you know classroom full of
computers and for us it's about building
and physical things like really making
computers from scratch from wires
learning about you know logic gates and
building half adders and adders and and
what are the roots of computation or
thinking about binary numbers and using
grapes and paper to understand them no
building building things on paper
building things that you can touch with
your hand and for us that's like there's
a really kind of a beauty in that or if
we're talking about image processing
like actually becoming the pixels and
and being in the room we also we do
hardware we do software we also do
theory so we have Allison birch is
another teacher in the program and she
has a class about crew you know critical
computation and so we might be one week
talking about critical engineering she's
a member of the deep lab and I just
wanted to give a shout out because it's
an amazing group of the feminist
technologists and they have a show
coming up in New York and they're just
awesome and I love what they're doing
also at the school were really big big
proponents of the use of drawing of the
idea of drawing as a way of making
metaphor so if you think about
computation and computers as they serve
like crazy to love abstraction like all
of the layers of abstraction that
actually happened when you press a key
on your keyboard or you type Google into
the browser and you hit return like
there's so many layers that happen and
what's the way of combating abstraction
but is actually drawing and metaphor and
so are our program like a lot of what we
do is work on paper and make drawings
make comic books and we also do things
like we might
give a lecture and then give the
students some dollars they have to run
to the dollar store and then build like
a physical description of what we talked
about in class and so it's a it kind of
beautiful school for from a standpoint
of like trying to create artworks and
expressions around these concepts and
another important idea of the school is
that we try to really create a space
where we can be together so in in the
space and this is in the older space now
we're in the cold Kickstarter offices in
the lower side but this is in Brooklyn
there was this thing called the golden
hour so about 5pm the Sun would set and
it just was this beautiful time to be in
the space and hanging out and jamming
it's also important for us that we eat
together so I had this vision when I
went to graduate school I had a vision
of graduate school that you would be
like drinking wine and arguing and like
staying up late and you know so we try
to create this kind of environment where
it's not just about like lectures and
homework but actually like cooking and
and making things together we try to do
different things like alternative ways
of looking at code or thinking about
code so here's Margaret Hamilton she's
one of the programmers on the for the
Apollo and this is she's printed out all
of her code it's almost as tall as she
is we tried to do things like that like
print out the code so here serigraph
Palermo is one of the participants in
the fall she took like a program and she
printed it out and she wrote on it and
so we do things like the classroom gets
full of these like printouts and like
drawings and all of this like amazing
random awesome stuff this is a project
which I really love by simona de rosa
she did a project called tasted and this
is essentially she was interested in in
cooking and if you think about like the
pairing of ingredients when you look at
ingredients that you might be cooking
the the different ingredients have are
made of different compounds and so she
found a database of compounds and then
she from that calculated the
computational similarity between
different ingredients so if you take
something like
chocolate and something like honey how
close are they and then she created a
whole menu that was based on
computational similarity or
dissimilarity it was one of these things
where once you ask the question then all
hell broke loose and you know we were
like jamming here you can see on the on
the wall like there's like all of the
equations that she was thinking about
and things like jakar it's I think it
says boo jacquard we're thinking about
your Jaccard distance and Python and
Hiroki is in the room probably I saw him
earlier today created a programming
language completely based on emoji so
here he's he's defining pie with pizza
slices Torah you your your kawa created
a binary card game and it's actually
just a set of playing cards where people
create new rules and so it's open source
and he's got a github repo and people
are actually making new games up and
playing and and doing these interesting
things with this idea of a card game
that's you know just the card is either
black or whites each a shock Bert Ron
and Jonathan wall created a project
called talking which is a conversation
between two computers where it's
essentially two televisions that are
showing graphical symbols like circles
or squares or triangles and then two
cameras and the camera from one
television is trained at the other and
what they did is they they documented
what happens in a normal conversation
and then created software that that
actually like explains what a
conversation is about and these
computers are actually having a
conversation Matt Daniels has been doing
some crazy polygon work cristo alegre
this is a data visualization where he
took stocks that stocks of different
companies and then used images of tulips
to describe the history of the stock
over time he also did he took these turn
off faces and he took to Tim Cook and is
using tims cook face to describe Apple
stock this is a project by Andy climber
which is called the insecurity camera
and this is a camera a security camera
that when you
look at it it looks away and it's a
super fun to be in you know around this
kind of even just like this version with
soup was crazy fun so early prototypes
and one of the beautiful things about
creating a school is actually seeing the
schools that come out of it so Paul
Chang was a participant created oh of
course in New York and as you know it's
teaching other people and ritual you i
created the school of ma the school of
machines making and make believe that's
in berlin and they're doing great
programs you know similar to what we're
doing at SF bc but with a whole
different kind of full you know did a
whole different crew of teachers and a
whole group different approach and it's
just been inspiring to actually see how
our school is leading to these other
schools or and so on this is oleg
peshkov ski created this third eye so I
suggested that it needed lasers so
that's the next the next step is adding
lasers and just to talk about how kind
of these projects lead to different
types of jamming this is yuki yoshida he
had this idea of cataloguing all of the
different ways that you could write code
to draw a circle so he created a whole
booklet and then I sent him like a
simple sketch a simple open firmware
sketch where it draws a circle by
randomly plotting lines from one side to
another and then if it hits the circle
we drop we don't we don't draw it and
then I just started jamming with that
and a lot of it this kind of this back
and forth so I said okay could I write
words what would happen I try to smiley
face that didn't work very well and then
let me try actually like putting
typography in there and having the lines
intersect with the typography and a lot
of it has been this kind of like jamming
and the thing is like we're not we don't
have money for a big building we don't
have money for like a fancy facilities
this is what our front door looks like
but that you know we're we're
um we've been in business now for two
years and we have a call now for
participants in the fall and now we're
really becoming like in an institution
and I don't want to be an institution I
want to be an institute and so a lot of
what I'm thinking about and what we're
grappling with is how how do we become
an institute how do we be an institute
and we're just trying to become like a
space for good warm curious people to be
in a room together and that's what I
think schools should be thank you